Example RBF in static mixer (#957)
lethe-cfd/lethe: doc/source/examples/sharp-immersed-boundary/3d-rbf-static-mixer/3d-rbf-static-mixer.rst

Because it is not possible to modulate the rotation speed or change the impeller, as is the case in stirred tanks, their design must be done precisely and take into account the desired level of mixing and the properties of fluids involved.

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  .. figure:: images/static_mixer_stl_casing_arrows.png                                                                      |
|     :align: center                                                                                                          |
|     :width: 800                                                                                                             |

> |     :name: Surface grid representation of a helix static mixer with its casing.                                             |

Reviewer: I don't think we usually use captions for images in the examples of the documentation... it is nice, but I would remove it for the sake of having a uniform format :)

|                                                                                                                             |

> |     Surface grid representation of a helix static mixer.                                                                    |

Author: Good question! It's to "show" that there is mixing. I'll add a few words to signify this in the caption, but if you think that's too confusing I'll make them uniform

> |     Surface grid representation of a helix static mixer.                                                                    |

Author: I added text in the image, but removed the caption like Laura suggested

-----------------------

In this example, we showcase the Radial Basis Functions (RBF) type of objects used in Lethe's resolved immersed-boundary Navier-Stokes solver.

------------------------
Preparation of the Solid
------------------------

Generation of the RBF file from the STL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`bitpit <https://github.com/optimad/bitpit>`_ is an open-source modular library for scientific computing. We have implemented an example using its RBF capabilities to train RBF-networks that approximate the geometry from surface grid objects (`.STL`).

After compiling the library, we can use executable ``/examples/RBF_example_00001``, along with a parameter file and the ``helix.stl`` in the ``rbf_generation`` directory.

The parameter file (``RBF.param``) contains:

#. The number of subdivisions in each of the three spatial dimensions: ``16``;
#. The number of adaption cycles. Using ``4`` adaptation cycles over a initial number of ``16`` subdivisions results in a level of detail equivalent to a number of ``256`` subdivisions;
#. The radius ratio means that each node `sees` up to ``3`` neighbors in each direction, which results in a smooth approximation.

> #. The base function of ``1`` means that the basis function is of Wendland type. This is the best functions to represent geometries, from our experiments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. The base function of ``1`` means that the basis function is of Wendland type. These are the best functions to represent geometries from our experiments.
```

#. The mesh range of ``0.1`` means that there is at least 10% of margin on each side of the object, so the collection of RBF nodes are sure to encompass the whole object.

.. code-block:: text

    nb_subdivision nb_adaptions radius_ratio base_function mesh_range
    16             4            3            1             0.1

From the ``/rbf_generation/`` directory, we can launch RBF generation using the command line:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  ./RBF_example_00001 ./ helix RBF.param

After a few minutes this executable will output ``RBF_helix.output``, which is the encoding of the shape, and ``RBF_helix.vtu``, which can be used to see the resulting approximation.

Creation of the Composite Shape File
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The complete geometry through which the flow happens contains the helix static mixer as well as the casing around it. We use composite shapes to build the complex geometry; this type of shape is introduced in this example: :doc:`../geometry-definition`. The main particularities of this composite shape are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The complete geometry through which the fluid flows contains the helix static mixer as well as the casing around it. We use composite shapes to build the complex geometry; this type of shape is introduced in this example: :doc:`../simple-plane-model-from-composite/simple-plane-model-from-composite`. The main particularities of this composite shape are:
```

#. Operation ``15`` forms the casing, and operation ``16`` joins the casing and the helix. The final operation is the one considered as definitive.

.. code-block:: text

    shapes
    0; rbf             ; RBF_helix.output;   -76.201:-20.0098:+15.6051;    0:+1.57079632679:0
    1; hyper rectangle ;         75:25:25;                       0:0:0;                 0:0:0
    2; cylinder        ;         15:10000;                       0:0:0;    0:+1.57079632679:0
    operations
    15; difference     ; 2:1
    16; union          ; 0:15

---------------
Parameter File
---------------

Simulation Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Although we are interested in the steady state solution of the flow, we use ``bdf1`` time integration. The required time to reach steady state in our case is low, but resolving it with low time steps enables the non-linear solver to converge; complex flow patterns are difficult to capture.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection simulation control
      set method      = bdf1
      set time end    = 40e-4
      set time step   = 1e-4
      set output path = ./output/
      set output name = output
    end

Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> We assume that the used fluid is water, and that the static mixer is of the meter length scale (150 centimeters). The time unit is seconds and the length unit is centimeter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We assume that the used fluid is water, and that the static mixer is of the meter length scale (:math:`150 \, \text{cm}`). The time units are seconds and the length units are centimeters.
```

> We assume that the used fluid is water, and that the static mixer is of the meter length scale (150 centimeters). The time unit is seconds and the length unit is centimeter.

Reviewer: I don't really understand the meter length scale detail... maybe you can rewrite it to make it clearer?

.. code-block:: text

    subsection physical properties
      subsection fluid 0
        set kinematic viscosity = 0.01
      end
    end

Mesh and Mesh Adaptation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The mesh is a simple hyper rectangle, large enough to encompass the mixer and its casing and long enough to establish the flow profile upstream and downstream.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The mesh is a simple hyper rectangle, large enough to encompass the mixer with its casing and long enough to establish the flow profile upstream and downstream.
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection mesh adaptation
      set type                 = kelly
      set fraction type        = number
      set max number elements  = 2000000
      set max refinement level = 5
      set min refinement level = 0
      set frequency            = 100000
    end

Definition of the Shape
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The section defining each parameter for the particles has certain requirements:

#. ``length ratio`` defines the length used to apply the immersed boundaries through interpolation. We choose ``4`` as a compromise between a low value, better for the linear solver, and a high value, better for mass preservation. Mass preservation can also be increased using a finer grid.
#. ``refine mesh inside radius factor`` and ``refine mesh outside radius factor`` are both set to ``1``, which activates minimal crown refinement mode.

> #. ``type = composite`` and ``shape arguments = mixer_long.composite`` allow to refer the defined complex shape. It also requires that the ``RBF_helix.output`` is located in the same directory as the parameter file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. ``type = composite`` and ``shape arguments = mixer_long.composite`` allow to refer the defined complex shape. This requires that the ``RBF_helix.output`` is located in the same directory as the parameter file.
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection particles
      set assemble Navier-Stokes inside particles = false
      set number of particles                     = 1

      subsection extrapolation function
        set length ratio  = 4
        set stencil order = 1
      end

      subsection local mesh refinement
        set initial refinement                = 4
        set refine mesh inside radius factor  = 1
        set refine mesh outside radius factor = 1
        set refinement zone extrapolation     = false
      end

      subsection particle info 0
        set type            = composite
        set shape arguments = mixer_long.composite
      end
    end

Boundary Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Each of the boundary are assigned a condition:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A condition is assigned to each boundary:
```

> #. The inlet is set to a Dirichlet boundary condition, with unit velocity in `X` direction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. The inlet is set to a Dirichlet boundary condition with unit velocity in the `x` direction.
```

.. code-block:: text

  subsection post-processing
    set verbosity               = verbose
    set calculate pressure drop = true
    set calculate flow rate     = true
    set inlet boundary id       = 0
    set outlet boundary id      = 1
  end

--------
Results
--------

The simulation can be launched with multiple cores:

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

  mpirun -np 6 lethe-fluid-sharp flow_in_long_mixer.prm

After the simulation has run, streamlines can be use to visualise the pressure and velocity fields through the static mixer, as well as show the mixing effects that can be obtained.

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  .. figure:: images/long_static_mixer_medium_thick_p_v.png                                                                  |
|     :align: center                                                                                                          |
|     :width: 800                                                                                                             |

> |     :name: Streamlines in the static mixer colored by velocity magnitude and pressure                                       |

Reviewer: Same comment regarding the caption of the image...

#. The translation parameter for the ``rbf`` shape is ``-76.201:-20.0098:+15.6051``. It is selected to ensure that the center of the static mixer is located at the origin. The coordinates are taken from ``rbf_generation/bitpit.log``.
#. The ``hyper rectangle`` is long enough to cover the length of the helix, and just large enough to fit in the background grid.
#. The ``cylinder`` hole is set to have a very high length to ensure that the difference operation applies properly over the whole domain.
#. Operation ``15`` forms the casing, and operation ``16`` joins the casing and the helix. The final operation is the one considered as definitive.

.. code-block:: text

    shapes
    0; rbf             ; RBF_helix.output;   -76.201:-20.0098:+15.6051;    0:+1.57079632679:0
    1; hyper rectangle ;         75:25:25;                       0:0:0;                 0:0:0
    2; cylinder        ;         15:10000;                       0:0:0;    0:+1.57079632679:0
    operations
    15; difference     ; 2:1
    16; union          ; 0:15

> 

Reviewer 3: Can you add a figure of the resulting geometry?

.. code-block:: text

    subsection mesh
      set type      = dealii
      set grid type = subdivided_hyper_rectangle

      # Grid to use when solving the flow in the long version of the mixer
      set grid arguments = 6,1,1: -150,-25,-25: 150,25,25: true

      set initial refinement = 3
    end

Mesh adaptation ``type`` is set to ``kelly``, to allow adaptive refinement at the solid surface. This is necessary for simulations of this type because of the prohibitive mesh size required when only uniform refinement is used. Setting ``max refinement level = 5`` allows for two levels of adaptive refinement from the uniform ``initial refinement = 3`` defined in the ``mesh`` section. The ``frequency = 10000`` to ensure that no refinement occurs between time steps, as they are not necessary here.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection mesh adaptation
      set type                 = kelly
      set fraction type        = number
      set max number elements  = 2000000
      set max refinement level = 5
      set min refinement level = 0
      set frequency            = 100000

>     end

Reviewer 3: Could you instead use `set frequency = 0` and `set initial refinement steps = 2`?

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure I understand how this mesh refinement works. It is performed only one time at the beginning with the velocity as the variable. But is the initial velocity=(1,0,0) every where except in the solid and it transitions from (1,0,0) to (0,0,0) at the surface? 

I would maybe add a figure of this mesh (if we can see something :) ).

Author: I changed the code and switched to `frequency=0`

Definition of the Shape
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The section defining each parameter for the particles has certain requirements:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section defines each parameter for the particles and has certain requirements:
```

> #. ``length ratio`` defines the length used to apply the immersed boundaries through interpolation. We choose ``4`` as a compromise between a low value, better for the linear solver, and a high value, better for mass preservation. Mass preservation can also be increased using a finer grid.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. ``length ratio`` defines the length used to apply the immersed boundaries through interpolation. We choose ``4`` as a compromise between a low value, which is better for the linear solver, and a high value, which is better for mass preservation. The latter can also be increased using a finer grid.
```

#. ``refine mesh inside radius factor`` and ``refine mesh outside radius factor`` are both set to ``1``, which activates minimal crown refinement mode.

> #. ``type = composite`` and ``shape arguments = mixer_long.composite`` allow to refer the defined complex shape. This requires that the ``RBF_helix.output`` is located in the same directory as the parameter file.

Author: I agree it wasn't clear, I rewrote it

.. code-block:: text

    subsection particles
      set assemble Navier-Stokes inside particles = false
      set number of particles                     = 1

      subsection extrapolation function
        set length ratio  = 4
        set stencil order = 1
      end

      subsection local mesh refinement
        set initial refinement                = 4
        set refine mesh inside radius factor  = 1
        set refine mesh outside radius factor = 1
        set refinement zone extrapolation     = false
      end

      subsection particle info 0
        set type            = composite
        set shape arguments = mixer_long.composite
      end

>     end

Reviewer 3: I would maybe move the code-block before the list of requirements, and mention the associated subsection for each element of the list.

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  .. figure:: images/long_static_mixer_medium_thick_p_v.png                                                                  |
|     :align: center                                                                                                          |
|     :width: 800                                                                                                             |
|     :name: Streamlines in the static mixer colored by velocity magnitude and pressure                                       |
|                                                                                                                             |
|     Streamlines in the static mixer colored by velocity magnitude and pressure                                              |
|                                                                                                                             |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> 

Reviewer 3: Maybe a figure for the pressure drop and flow rat could be interesting (to see the mass conservation maybe)

Author: I added a figure and a few lines for this

#. The translation parameter for the ``rbf`` shape is ``-76.201:-20.0098:+15.6051``. It is selected to ensure that the center of the static mixer is located at the origin. The coordinates are taken from ``rbf_generation/bitpit.log``.
#. The ``hyper rectangle`` is long enough to cover the length of the helix, and just large enough to fit in the background grid.
#. The ``cylinder`` hole is set to have a very high length to ensure that the difference operation applies properly over the whole domain.
#. Operation ``15`` forms the casing, and operation ``16`` joins the casing and the helix. The final operation is the one considered as definitive.

.. code-block:: text

    shapes
    0; rbf             ; RBF_helix.output;   -76.201:-20.0098:+15.6051;    0:+1.57079632679:0
    1; hyper rectangle ;         75:25:25;                       0:0:0;                 0:0:0
    2; cylinder        ;         15:10000;                       0:0:0;    0:+1.57079632679:0
    operations
    15; difference     ; 2:1
    16; union          ; 0:15

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> |  .. figure:: images/geometry_long_mixer.png                                                                                 |

Author: I added it

.. code-block:: text

    subsection simulation control
      set method      = bdf1
      set time end    = 40e-4
      set time step   = 1e-4
      set output path = ./output/
      set output name = output
    end

Physical Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We assume that the fluid is water, and that the length of the static mixer is in the order of :math:`150 \, \text{cm}`. Hence,  the length units are centimeters and the time units are seconds. The ``kinematic viscosity`` of water is :math:`0.01 \, \text{cm²}/\text{s}`.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection physical properties
      subsection fluid 0
        set kinematic viscosity = 0.01
      end
    end

Mesh and Mesh Adaptation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The mesh is a simple hyper rectangle, large enough to encompass the mixer with its casing and long enough to establish the flow profile upstream and downstream.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection mesh
      set type      = dealii
      set grid type = subdivided_hyper_rectangle

      # Grid to use when solving the flow in the long version of the mixer
      set grid arguments = 6,1,1: -150,-25,-25: 150,25,25: true

      set initial refinement = 3
    end

> Mesh adaptation ``type`` is set to ``kelly``, to allow adaptive refinement at the solid surface. This is necessary for simulations of this type because of the prohibitive mesh size required when only uniform refinement is used. Setting ``max refinement level = 5`` allows for two levels of adaptive refinement from the uniform ``initial refinement = 3`` defined in the ``mesh`` section. The ``frequency = 0`` to ensure that no refinement occurs between time steps, as it is not necessary here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mesh adaptation ``type`` is set to ``kelly``, to allow adaptive refinement at the solid surface. This is necessary for simulations of this type because of the prohibitive mesh size required when only uniform refinement is used. Setting ``max refinement level = 5`` allows for two levels of adaptive refinement from the uniform ``initial refinement = 3`` defined in the ``mesh`` section. The ``frequency = 0`` ensures that no refinement occurs between time steps, as it is not necessary here.
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection mesh adaptation
      set type                 = kelly
      set fraction type        = number
      set max number elements  = 2000000
      set max refinement level = 5
      set min refinement level = 0
      set frequency            = 0

>     end

Author: Not putting `set initial refinement steps = 2` was intended, because then we get the initial refinement from sharp and the "regular" initial refinement, which is too much. I agree that it is a bit confusing, I'll add a line and specify that.

.. code-block:: text
  :class: copy-button

    python3 postprocess_flow_and_pressure.py

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  .. figure:: images/mass_and_pressure_drop.svg                                                                              |
|     :align: center                                                                                                          |
|     :width: 800                                                                                                             |
|     :name: Mass conservation and pressure drop                                                                              |
|                                                                                                                             |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> As the plot shows, the mass preservation is constant after only a few time steps; it depends mostly on the length ratio, residual and grid refinement. The pressure drop, on the other hand, decreases steadily. We stopped the simulation after 40 time steps because the decrease is then low enough, but increasing the total duration would be interesting to get a better idea of the steady-state pressure drop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the plot shows, the mass conservation is constant after only a few time steps; it depends mostly on the length ratio, residual and grid refinement. The pressure drop, on the other hand, decreases steadily. We stopped the simulation after 40 time steps because the decrease is then low enough, but increasing the total duration would be interesting to get a better idea of the steady-state pressure drop.
```
